# `r class_session[[12, "date"]]` {-}

## Classroom {-}

- Orange (required)

## Topic {-}

- `r class_session[[12, "topic"]]`

## Objective {-}

- To engage in the process of developing a positioning statement and an elevator
pitch for a marketing-mix variable of a new-to-the-world product  

## Readings {-}

- [Just: Positioned to Target Mainstream Tastes? (B)][harvard-coursepack]
[@yemen-boichuk-cian-2018-b]

## Discussion Questions {-}

1. Aspirational positioning statements capture companies' intentions for
products by expressing what companies hope consumers will think of them. Using
the following sentence structure, write a positioning statement for the chicken
nuggets described in @yemen-boichuk-cian-2018-b. Further, justify the decisions
you made for the elements in square brackets.  

> For [target customers], JUST [product name] will be the [meaningful point(s)
of difference] choice compared to [relevant competitive set] because [supporting
facts].

2. How should JUST bring the chicken nuggets described in
@yemen-boichuk-cian-2018-b to market? Choose a single element of the marketing
mix and create a 60-second elevator pitch for JUST Co-Founder and CEO [Josh
Tetrick][], who will be video conferencing into class for this session.  

Prepare an answer to this question as you would if you were working on a
consulting project for Tetrick in "the real world," with the goal of persuading
him to set the marketing mix variable you focus on in the way you recommend
doing so. Ask for the highest realistic level of commitment you can (e.g.,
agreement with the decision you land on) and try your best to receive his
approval during class time.  

The questions posed in the following paragraphs should help you develop a
seemless and concrete recommendation for one element of bringing the chicken
nuggets described in @yemen-boichuk-cian-2018-b to market. You are neither
expected to answer all of them, nor are you limited to them (much more has been
written on the topic of making trade promotion more productive in the [archives
of HBR][HBR]). But the questions stem from advice given in @quelch-1983 that has
stood the test of time and (more than 35 years later) this advice continues to
help food and beverage companies develop action plans for new products. Thus,
addressing one or a couple of them, reading @quelch-1983, and referencing
additional sources should help you develop an exemplary elevator pitch for
Tetrick.  
    
- **Product**: Taking market factors into account, define a realistic set of
specifications and/or thresholds for nutritional and sensory attributes that
JUST's chicken nuggets need to have. What should JUST name its chicken nuggets?
What package size(s) and flavors should JUST offer? How many stockkeeping units
should the full portfolio of chicken nuggets have in it? What principles should
guide JUST's package-design decisions for its chicken nuggets? Consider applying
these principles to determine how JUST should design its packaging. What should
the packaging look like, and what materials should be used to make it? Are there
certain labels or claims that JUST should make sure to include on the packaging?  

- **Pricing**: Which pricing strategy should JUST adopt for its chicken nuggets:
everyday low price (EDLP) pricing, high-low pricing, or a hybrid of the two? For
each stockkeeping unit of chicken nuggets that you believe JUST should bring to
market, what should its manufacturer suggested retail price be? What temporary
price reductions should JUST offer to "encourage retailers and wholesalers to
increase purchase commitments and build inventories" [@quelch-1983, p. 130]? For
what package sizes should they offer these discounts? What pass-through rate
should JUST start negotiations at and strive to attain from retailers for the
temporary price reductions they offer? When, how often, and for how long should
JUST offer temporary price reductions?

- **Promotion**: What advertising and social media activity should JUST invest
in to promote its chicken nuggets? What merchandising support (e.g., features in
retailers' weekly circulars, in-store displays) should JUST aim to attain from
retailers? In particular, consider setting targets for the size, location, and
timing of features and/or in-store displays. What slogan or message should JUST
use to promote its chicken nuggets?

- **Placement**: What retailers and regions of the United States should JUST
target for the launch of its chicken nuggets? Should JUST plan to distribute its
chicken nuggets intensively or selectively when they first hit the market? How
much of JUST's focus should be on increasing market share in the retail and
food-service sectors, respectively? Where in retail locations should JUST aim to
gain initial display space for its chicken nuggets? How many facings should JUST
aim to secure in a given grocery store? What restaurant types should JUST target
in the food-service sector: fast-food or full-service restaurants?

## Assignments Due {-}

- Answers to today's discussion questions
    - After signing into Blackboard, submit your answers to [this
    folder][discussion-questions-submission-12]

## Assignments Made {-}

- Answers to the discussion questions for our next session of marketing

[discussion-questions-submission-12]: https://blackboard.comm.virginia.edu/webapps/assignment/uploadAssignment?course_id=_3248_1&content_id=_171764_1
[HBR]: http://re5qy4sb7x.search.serialssolutions.com/log?L=RE5QY4SB7X&D=EBU&J=HARVBUSREV&P=EJP&PT=EZProxy&H=fce003a731&U=http%3A%2F%2Fproxy01.its.virginia.edu%2Flogin%3Furl%3Dhttps%3A%2F%2Fsearch.ebscohost.com%2Fdirect.asp%3Fdb%3Dbth%26jid%3DHBR%26scope%3Dsite
[harvard-course-pack]: https://hbsp.harvard.edu/import/850099
[josh tetrick]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/joshtetrick/