# `r class_session[[15, "date"]]` {-}

## Topic {-}

- `r class_session[[15, "topic"]]`

## Objective {-}

- To learn how to develop an in-depth strategic plan for a single component of
the marketing mix

## Readings {-}

- [Just: Positioned to Target Mainstream Tastes? (B)][harvard-coursepack]
[@yemen-boichuk-cian-2018-b]

## Discussion Questions {-}

The two groups that choose to develop 12-minute presentations for this class
session will present positioning statements and action plans for bringing the
chicken nuggets described in @yemen-boichuk-cian-2018-b to market. See below for
guidance.

JUST Co-Founder and CEO [Josh Tetrick] will video conference into class to hear
these presentations. Presenters should prepare their presentations as they would
if they were presenting to Tetrick in "the real world," with the goal of
persuading him to pursue their action plans. Ask for the highest realistic level
of commitment you can (e.g., agreement on the individual decisions you arrive
at), and try your best to receive his approval during the up to eight minutes of
Q&A that will follow your presentation.

1. A positioning statement captures a companyâ€™s intention for a product by
expressing what the company hopes consumers will think of it. Using the
following sentence structure, write a positioning statement for the chicken
nuggets described in the case. Further, justify the decisions you made for the
elements in square brackets.

> For [target market], [product name] will be the [differentiating factor(s)]
compared to [competitive set] because [supporting evidence].

2. After considering the following paragraphs, develop a reasonably detailed
action plan for the chicken nuggets described in the case. @quelch-1983 offers
advice that has stood the test of time for how consumer product manufacturers
can develop such an action plan productively. Thus, reading @quelch-1983 and
other related sources&mdash;such as those you can access in [the archives of
HBR][HBR]&mdash;should help you work through this exercise.
    - **Product**: Taking market factors into account, define a realistic set of
    specifications and/or thresholds for nutritional and sensory attributes that
    Just's chicken nuggets need to have. What should Just name its chicken
    nuggets? What package size(s) and flavors should Just offer? How many
    stockkeeping units should the full portfolio of chicken nuggets have in it? 
    What principles should guide Just's package-design decisions for its chicken
    nuggets? Apply these principles to determine how Just should design its
    packaging. What should the packaging look like, and what materials should be
    used to make it? Are there certain labels or claims that Just should make
    sure to include on the packaging?
    - **Pricing**: Which pricing strategy should Just adopt for its chicken
    nuggets: everyday low price (EDLP) pricing, high-low pricing, or a hybrid of
    the two? For each stockkeeping unit of chicken nuggets that you believe Just
    should bring to market, what should its manufacturer suggested retail price
    be? What temporary price reductions should Just offer to "encourage
    retailers and wholesalers to increase purchase commitments and build
    inventories" [@quelch-1983, p. 130], and for what package sizes should they
    offer these discounts? What pass-through rate should Just start negotiations
    at and strive to attain from retailers for the temporary price reductions
    they offer? When, how often, and for how long should Just offer temporary
    price reductions?
    - **Promotion**: What advertising and social media activity should Just
    invest in to promote its chicken nuggets? What merchandising support (e.g.,
    features in retailers' weekly circulars, in-store displays) should Just aim
    to attain from retailers? In particular, be sure to set targets for the
    size, location, and timing of features and/or in-store displays. What slogan
    or message should Just use to promote its chicken nuggets?
    - **Placement**: What retailers and regions of the United States should Just
    target for the launch of its chicken nuggets? Should Just plan to distribute
    its chicken nuggets intensively or selectively when they first hit the
    market? How much of Just's focus should be on increasing market share in the
    retail and food-service sectors, respectively? Where in retail locations
    should Just aim to gain initial display space for its chicken nuggets? How
    many facings should Just aim to secure in a given grocery store? What
    restaurant types should Just target in the food-service sector: fast-food or
    full-service restaurants?

## Assignments Due {-}

- 

## Assignments Made {-}

- **Individual preparation**: Answers to next class's discussion questions,
typed, printed, and stapled (if your answers amount to more than one page), with
your name, computing ID, and block number in the top, right-hand corner of the
page

[harvard-course-pack]: https://hbsp.harvard.edu/coursepacks/651114
[HBR]: http://re5qy4sb7x.search.serialssolutions.com/log?L=RE5QY4SB7X&D=EBU&J=HARVBUSREV&P=EJP&PT=EZProxy&H=fce003a731&U=http%3A%2F%2Fproxy01.its.virginia.edu%2Flogin%3Furl%3Dhttps%3A%2F%2Fsearch.ebscohost.com%2Fdirect.asp%3Fdb%3Dbth%26jid%3DHBR%26scope%3Dsite
[josh tetrick]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/joshtetrick/