# JUST {-}

Building on our discussion of the JUST (A) case [@yemen-boichuk-cian-2018-b] on
`r class_session[[6, "date"]]`, the two groups that choose to develop 12-minute
presentations for our class session on `r class_session[[15, "date"]]` will be
responsible for presenting action plans that offer seemless and concrete answers
to the following question:

> How should JUST bring the chicken nuggets described in
@yemen-boichuk-cian-2018-b to market?

JUST Co-Founder and CEO [Josh Tetrick][] will video conference into class for
these presentations. Both groups should prepare as they would if they were
working on a consulting project for Tetrick in "the real world," with the goal
of persuading him to pursue their action plans. Ask for the highest realistic
level of commitment you can (e.g., agreement on the most important decisions you
land on) and try your best to receive his approval during the up to eight
minutes of Q&A that will follow your presentation.

The questions posed in the following paragraphs should help you develop a
seemless and concrete recommendation for bringing the chicken nuggets described
in @yemen-boichuk-cian-2018-b to market. You are neither expected to answer all
of them, nor are you limited to them (much more has been written on the topic of
making trade promotion more productive in the [archives of HBR][HBR]). But the
questions stem from advice given in @quelch-1983 that has stood the test of time
and (more than 35 years later) this advice continues to help food and beverage
companies develop action plans for new products. Thus, addressing many of them,
reading @quelch-1983, and referencing additional sources should help you develop
an exemplary presentation.
    
- **Product**: Taking market factors into account, define a realistic set of
specifications and/or thresholds for nutritional and sensory attributes that
JUST's chicken nuggets need to have. What should JUST name its chicken nuggets?
What package size(s) and flavors should JUST offer? How many stockkeeping units
should the full portfolio of chicken nuggets have in it? What principles should
guide JUST's package-design decisions for its chicken nuggets? Apply these
principles to determine how JUST should design its packaging. What should the
packaging look like, and what materials should be used to make it? Are there
certain labels or claims that JUST should make sure to include on the packaging?

- **Pricing**: Which pricing strategy should JUST adopt for its chicken nuggets:
everyday low price (EDLP) pricing, high-low pricing, or a hybrid of the two? For
each stockkeeping unit of chicken nuggets that you believe JUST should bring to
market, what should its manufacturer suggested retail price be? What temporary
price reductions should JUST offer to "encourage retailers and wholesalers to
increase purchase commitments and build inventories" [@quelch-1983, p. 130]? For
what package sizes should they offer these discounts? What pass-through rate
should JUST start negotiations at and strive to attain from retailers for the
temporary price reductions they offer? When, how often, and for how long should
JUST offer temporary price reductions?

- **Promotion**: What advertising and social media activity should JUST invest
in to promote its chicken nuggets? What merchandising support (e.g., features in
retailers' weekly circulars, in-store displays) should JUST aim to attain from
retailers? In particular, be sure to set targets for the size, location, and
timing of features and/or in-store displays. What slogan or message should JUST
use to promote its chicken nuggets?

- **Placement**: What retailers and regions of the United States should JUST
target for the launch of its chicken nuggets? Should JUST plan to distribute its
chicken nuggets intensively or selectively when they first hit the market? How
much of JUST's focus should be on increasing market share in the retail and
food-service sectors, respectively? Where in retail locations should JUST aim to
gain initial display space for its chicken nuggets? How many facings should JUST
aim to secure in a given grocery store? What restaurant types should JUST target
in the food-service sector: fast-food or full-service restaurants?

[HBR]: http://re5qy4sb7x.search.serialssolutions.com/log?L=RE5QY4SB7X&D=EBU&J=HARVBUSREV&P=EJP&PT=EZProxy&H=fce003a731&U=http%3A%2F%2Fproxy01.its.virginia.edu%2Flogin%3Furl%3Dhttps%3A%2F%2Fsearch.ebscohost.com%2Fdirect.asp%3Fdb%3Dbth%26jid%3DHBR%26scope%3Dsite
[josh tetrick]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/joshtetrick/