# `r class_session[[9, "date"]]` {-}

## Topic {-}

- `r class_session[[9, "topic"]]`

## Objective {-}

- To work on developing action plans for IIP 3 of the Margaritaville project
that are seamless and concrete

## Readings {-}

- [Interdisciplinary Project Project Description][]

## Discussion Question {-}

How should Margaritaville implement your recommendation, and how did you arrive
at these implementation choices? IIP 3 asks you to form a well-reasoned answer
to this question that spans the four elements of the marketing mix.

Rather than have separate paragraphs or sections for each of the four Ps, the
action plan you advance in your IIP 3 Client Report should be *seamless*. As is
true for inter-disciplinary curriculum in business schools, the best action
plans are integrated. What does this mean practically? You should think of the
marketing mix as a framework you can use to create a comprehensive action plan.
However, it would be a mistake to let the framework silo your thinking or the
structure of your output. Again, you should *not* separate your action plan into
four paragraphs or sections, one for each element of the marketing mix. Instead,
describe how M'ville should bring your initiative to market by weaving
specifications for elements of the marketing mix into a holistic action plan
seamlessly.

You might find it helpful to think of yourself and your group members as
composers of orchestral music and the four Ps as wind, string, percussion, and
brass instruments. Similar to how orchestral writers produce scores that unify
these instruments, your task is to produce an action plan that unifies the four
Ps. Orchestral writers produce music that a sequence of solos would fall far
short of. As a result, symphonies are greater than the sum of their parts.
Analogously, you should strive to combine elements of the marketing mix
synergistically. As a result, your action plan will be greater than a sum of the
four Ps.

The best action plans are also *concrete*. What does this mean practically? You
should not leave statements like "we think the line of Margaritaville toasters
that we are proposing should enter the market at a high price" undefined. What
is a *high* price? In this case, you need to assign dollar values to the
individual toasters that you think should be launched, using cogent reasoning,
in order for your action plan to carry weight. No matter the marketing-mix
variable, try to bring your recommendations to life by pushing your analysis
beyond the abstract. The action plan you develop should unambiguously describe
what your initiative would look like in the market and get as close to reality
as possible.

Come to class having individually written at least a page of new ideas for your
group's action plan. Strive to describe how Margaritaville should implement your
recommendation, and how you arrived at these implementation choices, both
seamlessly and concretely. In class, your group will be given time to share your
ideas with one another, offer constructive feedback, and make progress on your
IIP 3 Client Report.

## Assignments Due {-}

- A response to today's discussion question

## Assignments Made {-}

- None

[Interdisciplinary Project Project Description]: https://blackboard.comm.virginia.edu/bbcswebdav/pid-137365-dt-content-rid-866173_1/xid-866173_1